TELCODOCS-906: MGMT-7888 Support installation disk encryption - enhancement OCP updates (#53247)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-special-config-storage.adoc

[id="installation-special-config-encrypt-disk_{context}"]
== About disk encryption

You can enable encryption for the boot disks on the control plane and compute nodes at installation time.
{product-title} supports the Trusted Platform Module (TPM) v2 and Tang encryption modes.

> * TPM v2: This is the preferred mode.

Reviewer: Nit: Perhaps use definition lists for these items? https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/lists/description/ 

```suggestion
TPM v2:: This is the preferred mode.
```

> TPM v2 stores passphrases in a secure cryptoprocessor contained within a server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TPM v2 stores passphrases in a secure cryptoprocessor on the server.
```

You can use this mode to prevent decryption of the boot disk data on a cluster node if the disk is removed from the server.

> * Tang: Tang and Clevis are server and client components that enable network-bound disk encryption (NBDE).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tang:: Tang and Clevis are server and client components that enable network-bound disk encryption (NBDE).
```

You can bind the boot disk data on your cluster nodes to one or more Tang servers.
This prevents decryption of the data unless the nodes are on a secure network where the Tang servers are accessible.
Clevis is an automated decryption framework used to implement decryption on the client side.

[IMPORTANT]
====
The use of the Tang encryption mode to encrypt your disks is only supported for bare metal and vSphere installations on user-provisioned infrastructure.
====

> On earlier versions of {op-system-first}, disk encryption was configured by specifying `/etc/clevis.json` in the Ignition config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In earlier versions of {op-system-first}, disk encryption was configured by specifying `/etc/clevis.json` in the Ignition config.
```

That file is not supported in clusters created with {product-title} 4.7 or later.
Configure disk encryption by using the following procedure.

When the TPM v2 or Tang encryption modes are enabled, the {op-system} boot disks are encrypted using the LUKS2 format.

This feature:

* Is available for installer-provisioned infrastructure, user-provisioned infrastructure, and Assisted Installer deployments
  * For Assisted installer deployments:
    - Each cluster can only have a single encryption method, Tang or TPM
    - Encryption can be enabled on some or all nodes
    - There is no Tang threshold; all servers must be valid and operational

>     - Encryption applies to the installation disks only, not to the workload disks{}

Reviewer: Why are there curly brackets after the word "disks"? If you are referring to a field in a YAML CR, please mark it up appropriately.

This feature:

> * Is available for installer-provisioned infrastructure, user-provisioned infrastructure, and Assisted Installer deployments

Reviewer 2: It would be worth mentioning that encryption can be enabled on all nodes, or only on master / workers. See:

https://github.com/openshift/assisted-service/blob/94f729c27415ed6887a0a5e04ab602f57641af68/swagger.yaml#L5120-L5124

+
[NOTE]
====
Butane is a command-line utility that {product-title} uses to offer convenient, short-hand syntax for writing and validating machine configs.
For more information, see the _Creating machine configs with Butane_ section.
====
+
* You have access to a {op-system-base-full} 8 machine that can be used to generate a thumbprint of the Tang exchange key.

.Procedure

> . If you want to use TPM v2 to encrypt your cluster, check to see if TPM v2 encryption needs to be enabled in the BIOS on each node.

Reviewer: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#bios

```suggestion
. If you want to use TPM v2 to encrypt your cluster, check to see if TPM v2 encryption needs to be enabled in the host firmware for each node.
```

----
+
<1> For control plane configurations, replace `worker` with `master` in both of these locations.
<2> Set this field to the instruction set architecture of the cluster nodes.
Some examples include, `x86_64`, `aarch64`, or `ppc64le`.
<3> Include this section if you want to encrypt the root file system.
For more details, see the _About disk encryption_ section.
<4> Include this field if you want to use a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) to encrypt the root file system.
<5> Include this section if you want to use one or more Tang servers.
<6> Specify the URL of a Tang server.
In this example, `tangd.socket` is listening on port `7500` on the Tang server.
<7> Specify the exchange key thumbprint, which was generated in a preceding step.
<8> Specify the minimum number of TPM v2 and Tang encryption conditions that must be met for decryption to occur.
The default value is `1`.

> For more information about this topic, see the _Configuring an encryption threshold_ section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about this topic, see the "Configuring an encryption threshold". 
```
https://coreos.slack.com/archives/C85JYPHL3/p1649250533446979

After installing {product-title}, you can verify if boot disk encryption or mirroring is enabled on the cluster nodes.

. From the installation host, access a cluster node by using a debug pod:

> .. Start a debug pod for the node.

Reviewer: You can tighten this up:

```suggestion
.. Start a debug pod for the node, for example:
```

> The following example starts a debug pod for the `compute-1` node:

Reviewer: This line isn't required

  size:    15683456 sectors
  mode:    read/write
----
<1> The encryption format.
When the TPM v2 or Tang encryption modes are enabled, the {op-system} boot disks are encrypted using the LUKS2 format.
<2> The encryption algorithm used to encrypt the LUKS2 volume.
The `aes-cbc-essiv:sha256` cipher is used if FIPS mode is enabled.
<3> The device that contains the encrypted LUKS2 volume.
If mirroring is enabled, the value will represent a software mirror device, for example `/dev/md126`.
+

> .. List the Clevis plug-ins bound to the encrypted device:

Reviewer: The original line is correct.

```suggestion
.. List the Clevis plug-ins that are bound to the encrypted device:
```
